>> Sreenivasan: MILITARY
VETERANS GROUPS ARE APPLAUDING
THE BIPARTISAN-BACKED LAW
PRESIDENT TRUMP SIGNED YESTERDAY
TO IMPROVE THE VETERANS
ADMINISTRATION.
IT CREATES A NEW V.A.
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE AND MAKES
IT EASIER FOR THE V.A. TO FIRE
PROBLEMATIC EMPLOYEES IN A
DEPARTMENT WHOSE HOSPITALS HAVE
BEEN CRITICIZED FOR LAPSES IN
CARE FOR AMERICA'S 19 MILLION
VETERANS.
ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER
DARLENE SUPERVILLE HAS BEEN
COVERING THIS STORY AND JOINS ME
NOW FROM WASHINGTON.
THIS IS KIND OF A RARE GLIMMER
OF BIPARTISANSHIP.
>> IT IS A RARE GLIMMER OF
BIPARTISANSHIP.
AND BIPARTISANSHIP IS EASY TO
ACHIEVE WHEN YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT MILITARY VETERANS AND THE
PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY WHO
VOLUNTARILY GO INTO HARM'S WAY
IN DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES.
REMEMBER-- YOU MAY REMEMBER THAT
THE V.A. SECRETARY, DAVID
SCHULKEN, WHO IS A HOLDOVER FROM
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, WHEN
HE WENT BEFORE THE SENATE TO BE
CONFIRMED TO BECOME THE VETERAN
AFFAIRS SECRETARY, THE
CONFIRMATION VOTE WAS 100-0, AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT DONALD
TRUMP TALKS ABOUT QUITE A BIT
WHEN HE'S TALKING ABOUT
VETERANS' ISSUES.
>> Sreenivasan: I REMEMBER THE
SCANDAL THAT STARTED THIS.
I MEAN, THIS WAS IN PHOENIX.
THIS WAS A FEW YEARS AGO, IT
EVEN CAUSED ERIC SHINSEKI HIS
JOB.
REFRESH US A LITTLE BIT ON WHAT
CAUSED THIS.
>> WELL, IT WAS UNCOVERED THAT
AT THE V.A. MEDICAL CENTER IN
PHOENIX, STAFF THERE WERE
KEEPING SEPARATE WAITING LISTS
OF VETERANS THAT WERE WAITING
FOR APPOINTMENTS.
THEY WERE TRYING TO COVER UP THE
LONG WAITS THAT WERE-- THAT IT
WAS TAKING FOR VETERANS TO GET
THEIR APPOINTMENTS WITH THEIR
DOCTORS.
DATA WAS BEING FALSIFIED, AND
THROUGHOUT A LOT OF THIS, IT WAS
FOUND THAT SOME VETERANS
ACTUALLY DIED WHILE THEY WERE
WAITING FOR CARE.
IT COST ERIC SHINSEKI HIS JOB AS
THE V.A. SECRETARY, AS YOU
MENTIONED, AND CAUSED CONGRESS
TO START THINKING ABOUT WAYS TO
TRANSFORM THE V.A. AND TO HELP
GET VETERANS THE CARE THAT THEY
NEED AND TO GET IT FASTER.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THIS LAW
ALSO OFFERS SOME PROTECTIONS FOR
WHISTLE BLOWERS?
BECAUSE IT'S OFTEN THE WAY THAT
WE EVEN HEAR ABOUT THESE THINGS,
THESE PROBLEMS IN THE V.A., ARE
EITHER FROM VETERANS WHO ARE THE
VICTIMS OF POOR CARE OR LACK OF
CARE, OR PEOPLE INSIDE WHO WANT
TO SEE SOMETHING CHANGE.
>> RIGHT, IT DOES OFFER SOME NEW
PROTECTIONS FOR WHISTLEBLOWERS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS ALSO CREATING
A COMPLAINT HOT LINE AT THE
WHITE HOUSE, WHICH IS UNDERGOING
SOME TESTING RIGHT NOW, FOR
VETERANS AND OTHERS TO CALL IN
WITH COMPLAINTS AND THAT KIND OF
THING.
SO, HE'S PUTTING A LITTLE BIT OF
A PREMIUM ON PROTECTING
WHISTLEBLOWERS AND THE KIND OF
PEOPLE WHO BRING THESE
SITUATIONS TO LIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNOW, HOW
LONG DID SOME OF THESE EMPLOYEES
HAVE THIS SORT OF PROTECTION,
AND WHO WAS OPPOSED TO THIS KIND
OF LEGISLATION?
I MEAN, IS IT THE... IS IT THE
KIND OF UNIONS THAT ARE... THESE
EMPLOYEES ARE MEMBERS OF, OR
KIND OF CAREER SERVICE
INDIVIDUALS?
>> MOSTLY, IT'S BEEN THE
EMPLOYEE UNIONS, THE UNIONS THAT
REPRESENT THE CAREER WORKERS IN
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT,
SOME OF WHOM ARE AFRAID THAT
SOME OF THE CHANGES UNDER THIS
LAW WOULD DO TWO THINGS: ONE,
WOULD ALLOW THE V.A. SECRETARY
AND OTHER TOP OFFICIALS IN THAT
DEPARTMENT TO SORT OF TARGET
EMPLOYEES FOR POLITICAL
PURPOSES RATHER THAN ACTUAL JOB
PERFORMANCE ISSUES, WHICH IS
WHAT THIS IS SUPPOSED TO BE
ABOUT.
AND THE OTHER ISSUE THAT
CONCERNS A LOT OF THE UNIONS IS
THE FACT THAT THEY SEE WHAT'S
HAPPENING OR WHAT IS ABOUT TO
HAPPEN AT THE V.A. AS PART OF A
BROADER PUSH ACROSS THE
GOVERNMENT TO CHANGE CIVIL
SERVICE RULES, MAKE IT EASIER TO
GET RID OF EMPLOYEES.
AS YOU MAY KNOW, DONALD TRUMP,
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP, WANTS TO
SHRINK THE SIZE OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, AND A LOT OF
AGENCIES ARE CURRENTLY LOOKING
FOR WAYS TO DO THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
DARLENE SUPERVILLE OF THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.